---
title: Weekly Retrospective
date: 2013-04-12 09:47 -06:00
tags:
---
This week has been awesome for learning new things. I have enjoyed working with my "Son of Store Engine" team. They have been great about allowing me to explore new things and being patient with me as I do. I feel like it is nice to have a team that works really efficiently so there is more time to actually learn. Sometimes with the due dates looming we are less likely to let knowledge sink in and more likely to rush to get things done. 

As time goes by, I am learning more and more what my strengths and weaknesses are which is helpful in deciding what kind of job I want to do when I get out of gSchool. I think the breadth of information we have learned thus far has given me a vast perspective on what I like and also what I love about the programming world. I like that the curriculum has given me not only knowledge but the choice to venture into other languages that are not necessarily the main focus of the course. I have been working on reading "Learning jQuery" and I am really enjoying learning Javascript in general. 

We have been going strong on projects for about three weeks now without a break and I think I am realizing that sometimes when you feel like you don't have enough time, it is really that you aren't using the time you have correctly. It sounds like a simple concept but it really it is definitely easier said than done. I am interested to see how much my efficiency changes while going through this program. 

I am really excited to have Rachel Ober as a mentor! We have only had one chat so far (soon to be two!) but she seems like she is great at working with beginners and giving advice. She currently works on front end development but teaches Ruby on Rails on the side. I am excited because she has a combination of skillsets that I am interested in. I think she will be able to help me a lot not only in our weekly talks but also in my day to day hiccups. 

The larger groups have been great because I feel like it is nice to get to work with people that I have not worked with before. It is also good because you can learn different things from each member of your group as they have different strengths. I think Flowdock has ultimtely been very helpful in the communication aspect for my team especially with weather and working remotely. Github is, as always, awesome for group projects. As time has passed, we have all learned how to deal with merge conflicts in more efficient ways which has also helped our work flow to not be disrupted as often by trying to decipher them. Pivotal is also a great tool for planning out stories and keeping progress organized. I do think that everyone uses Pivotal differently which can lead to some confusing entries if proper communication does not exist within the team.

In the Son of Store Engine team, I am working on an equal balance of front end and back end. I think the front end has been something I have been consistently working on throughout the past few projects. I often come up with the ideas for names, copy, images and the overall look and feel of the site. I am passionate about making things look clean but also exciting (contrary to the pony-rainbow-sparkle magic of Traffic Spy). I think that it is just as important as functionality as it is what connects the user to your site. I am excited to have a team that will allow me to take my time to hack out backend code this time just because I need more time than some of the other developers to work on the backend. I used to think that it was hard to express my creativity with backend code but now I think that if you have the knowledge and the right tools you can make some pretty interesting and beautiful back end code. 

Working with Rails has been really interesting thus far. I think my biggest strength at this time is understanding routes and MVC framework. My past job experience with Networking and Servers has come in handy because the structure is similar to that of a large network. I think the thing I am still struggling with most is knowing when to use what methods. On the fly implementation is difficult for me. I am not sure if this is a confidence issue or if it is a lack of knowledge but I am certain that the only way to remedy this is to practice as often as possible. I have subscribed to RailsCasts and I think that has helped me with certain aspects of rails. I really like that in about 10 minutes you can learn one facet of Rails. The short spurts of information seem to help me grasp concepts better. 

Programming song of the week: "Pair of Dice" by Tiesto & Allure
